[Durable Objects] Initial DO JS RPC docs (#13765)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs-and-send-requests.md

{{</definitions>}}

## Send requests

You can send requests to a Durable Object by:

- [Sending HTTP requests](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs/#send-http-requests) to a Durable Object's `fetch()` handler.

> - Invoking [Remote Procedure Call (RPC)](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/) methods defined on a Durable Object class (available for Workers with a [compatibility date greater than or equal to `2024-04-03`](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/#remote-procedure-call-rpc)).

Reviewer: Tricky to frame but technically when you call an RPC on a DO, you are not sending a request

Author: more context [here](https://chat.google.com/room/AAAAVrF5vCc/rHX2avbTVOI/YUTgOkqMAmw?cls=10), will work to clarify

Reviewer: looks great

- Using the [WebSocket API](/durable-objects/reference/websockets/).

### Call RPC methods

> To use RPC, a Durable Objects class should extend the built-in type `DurableObject`. Then, public methods on a Durable Objects class are exposed as [RPC methods](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/), which you can call from a Durable Object stub in a Worker. All RPC calls are [asynchronous](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/lifecycle), accept and return [serializable types](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types), and [propagate exceptions](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/error-handling) to the caller without a stack trace. Refer to [Workers RPC](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types) for complete details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use RPC, a Durable Objects class must extend the built-in type `DurableObject`. Then, public methods on a Durable Objects class are exposed as [RPC methods](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/), which you can call from a Durable Object stub in a Worker. All RPC calls are [asynchronous](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/lifecycle), accept and return [serializable types](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types), and [propagate exceptions](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/error-handling) to the caller without a stack trace. Refer to [Workers RPC](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/supported-types) for complete details.
```

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class Counter extends DurableObject {

	async increment(amount = 1) {
    let value: number = (await this.ctx.storage.get("value")) || 0;
    value += amount;
    this.ctx.storage.put("value", value);
    return value;
  }
}
```

```ts
// A Worker calling a Durable Object
let durableObjectStub = env.COUNTERS.get(id);
let response = await durableObjectStub.increment();
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Prior to [RPC introduction](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/#remote-procedure-call-rpc), the `ctx` object for Durable Objects was known as `state`. `state` was the name of the Durable Object constructor parameter, so an application could use any other name. With RPC, the `DurableObject` superclass defines these values as properties, so they must have official names. `ctx` was chosen for consistency between `DurableObject` and `WorkerEntrypoint`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you write a Worker that does not extend the [`DurableObject` class](/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/#remote-procedure-call-rpc), the `ctx` object for Durable Objects was known as `state`. `state` was the name of the Durable Object constructor parameter, so an application could use any other name. With RPC, the `DurableObject` superclass defines these values as properties, so they must have official names. `ctx` was chosen for consistency between `DurableObject` and `WorkerEntrypoint`.
```

it's this, right? that it still works the same way as before if you don't extend from DurableObject

Author: added suggestion and tweaked wording some more

Reviewer 2: Yeah. Also if you really want, you can do:

```js
export class Counter extends DurableObject {
  state = this.ctx

  // rest of your code here
}
```

It's just that you'll end up with both `this.state` and `this.ctx` pointing to the same thing

Author: Separately, we will replace all mentions of `state` with `ctx`. @Maddy-Cloudflare are you able to tackle this next week?
